# v2.2.0 Release Note

## Summary
**v2.2.0 has a hardfork, which will be activated at block height 36,893,881
(ETA is around 06/19/2025 01:28:35 AM +UTC) on IoTeX L1 mainnet.**

All nodes **must** upgrade to this release, otherwise the node runs the risk of
not being able to sync with the IoTeX blockchain after other nodes have upgraded.

**Note:**
There's no change to the mainnet config.yaml and genesis.yaml. You only need to
restart your node with the new v2.2.0 image.

This release enables [IIP-42](https://github.com/iotexproject/iips/blob/master/iip-42.md). It reduces the block interval from 5 seconds to 2.5 seconds, effectively doubling the block production rate. This improvement enhances overall network responsiveness, and reduces transaction confirmation times. Users and developers can expect faster feedback for submitted transactions and more frequent block updates across the network. System Staking Contract Version 3 is introduced, which is optimized for the new 2.5-second block interval. It replaces Version 2, which is now deprecated. It will remain compatible even if the block interval changes again in the future.

## Key Features and Enhancements

1. Reduce block interval from 5 seconds to 2.5 seconds.
2. Introduce system staking contract version 3 and deprecate system staking contract version 2.

## Bug Fix and Performance Improvements:
1. Enhanced the P2P network by introducing stricter rate limit.
2. Upgraded golang and some dependencies.
3. Fixed minting and validation inconsistency.

## Upgrade Priority
v2.2.0 comes with a hardfork, so all nodes **must** upgrade in order to keep
syncing with the IoTeX blockchain

| Node type  | Action       |
| ---------- | ------------ |
| Delegate   | Must upgrade |
| Fullnode   | Must upgrade |
| API node   | Must upgrade |

## Commits
https://github.com/iotexproject/iotex-core/compare/v2.1.2...v2.2.0
