---
postmortem ID: 1
title: Accidentally Including Test Account Balances
author: Zhijie Shen <zhijie@iotex.com>
status: Mitigated
created: 2019-04-23
updated: 2019-04-23
---


# Abstract

When launching mainnet alpha, we created the genesis states, which have included 27 test accounts and they totally have
2.7 Billion IOTX tokens. We have burned all those tokens into the all-zero address (`io1qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqd39ym7`)
to mitigate the issue. No loss happened before the issue was mitigated.

# Cause

Software uses golang map data structure to store the initial balances in genesis, and have 27 test accounts by default.
When the software loads the initial balance from the genesis yaml file, it does not overwrite the map, but append additional
data to it. Therefore, these 27 test accounts which holds 2.7 Billion IOTX tokens were accidentally be set to the blockchain.

# Solution

`io1qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqd39ym7` is the all-zero address, and nobody holds the key for this address. We sent
all the balances on these 27 test accounts into this all-zero address. Therefore, 2.7 Billion additional IOTX tokens were
cryptographically burned.

# Impact

The problem was identified, and mitigated before people steal tokens from the test accounts, so that there was no economic
damage happened. The transfer actions that we burned these extra tokens will be permanently recorded on the blockchain.

# Activities

- 2017-04-23 08:30 PDT: the test accounts were found
- 2017-04-23 09:00 PDT: the root cause was identified
- 2017-04-23 09:10 PDT: API endpoints were shutdown and tube was shutdown
- 2017-04-23 10:00 PDT: the test accounts were audited and there was no loss
- 2017-04-23 10:20 PDT: burned all balances into the all-zero address
- 2017-04-23 11:00 PDT: verified all test account balances are cleared
- 2017-04-23 12:00 PDT: re-enable API endpoints and tube

# Follow-ups

- Bookkeep the total tokens minted on the blockchain
- Fix the genesis initial balance data structure to overwrite instead of append
- Block all-zero address from issuing any action



